Raksha Bandhan:
---------------
Overview of Raksha Bandhan:
	
1).Raksha Bandhan or Rakhi is celebrated on a full moon day in the month of Shravan (August) according to the Hindu calendar
2).because of which this festival is also known as Shravan Purnima.
3).On the occasion of Rakhi, the bond of affection existing between brothers and sisters is reaffirmed.
4).It is typically a Hindu festival but nowadays people from different faiths celebrate it too.
5).On this day, Sisters tie a sacred thread or a colourful special band, rightly called the 'Rakhi' on their brothers' wrist as a mark of affection, sisterly love, and sublime sentiments.
6).The brothers in return promise to protect their sisters and offer them gifts.
7).Not only siblings but also cousins and friends celebrate this festival with each other.
8).'Raksha' means protection and 'Bandhan' means binding or bound. The prosperous Indian mythology provides many religious reasons to celebrate the day.
9).The festival is mentioned in most of the Indian epics and its origin can be traced back to the mythological times.
10).The practice of tying thread was traditionally prevalent in the Indian history.
Origin of Raksha Bandhan Festival:

The festival of Raksha Bandhan is known to have originated centuries before and there are several stories related to the celebration of this special festival.

Indra Dev and Sachi- According to the ancient legend of Bhavishya Purana, once there was a fierce battle between Gods and demons. Lord Indra- the principle deity of sky, rains and thunderbolts who was fighting the battle on the side of Gods was having a tough resistance from the powerful demon King, Bali. The war continued for a long time and did not came on a decisive end. Seeing this, Indra's wife Sachi went to the Lord Vishnu who gave her a holy bracelet made up of cotton thread. Sachi tied the holy thread around the wrist of her husband, Lord Indra who ultimately defeated the demons and recovered the Amaravati. The earlier account of the festival described these holy threads to be amulets which were used by women for prayers and were tied to their husband when they were leaving for a war. Unlike, the present times, those holy threads were not limited to brother-sister relationships.
	
Celebrations in our Area:

1).The festival is celebrated in different forms in different areas and is also known by different names.
2).As per traditions, on this day the sister prepares the Puja Thali with a Diya, Rice, Roli and Rakhis.
3).She worships the Gods, ties Rakhi to her brother and prays for his well-being. In return the brother accepts the love with a promise to protect her sister and gives her a gift.
4).Traditionally, they then share and eat sweets like Kaju Katli, Jalebi, and Burfi.
5).This festival strengthens the bond of love between the sisters and brothers.
